# Notes from 2/7/2017 #

## McDonald's Cases Feedback ##
Need to focus on what the audience DOESN'T know, not what your
audience knows.

Time is money. The audience cares about the benefit for them.  They
don't care about theory, they want benefits.  Can you sell the
idea?

Opinions don't really count.  Data must support it.

Ideal presentation:
- Biggest key success factors (KSF)
  - Speed
  - quality
  - service

In 1994, they stopped looking at their franchises for quality,
speed, and service (big problem).  Why stop grading franchises?
Only reason is to save money.  Travel time, time to grade,
etc...

Profitability went up until around 1994, up a little later, then
back down in 2002.

1980s:
Threats:
- entry: low (great brand)
- rivals: medium (BK, Wendy's)
- buyers: low
- suppliers: low
- substitutes: low

Now:
Threats:
- entry: high (brand is a problem now - health image)
- rivals: high (more competitors)
- buyers: low
- suppliers: low
- substitutes: high (lots more alternatives)

Likely little feedback from employees to CEO.
- started listening when Subway had more stores for first time

Like a change of emphasis from customer (pre-1994) to profit
(post-1994).  This is the only thing that can explain the shift.
- Employees seen as assets pre-1994, liabilities post-1994
- Training seen as investment pre-1994, as a cost post-1994

Maslow's hierarchy of needs
- a paycheck isn't the entire reward (the physical)
- sense of safety, belonging, teamwork are also part of the reward
- sense of self-esteem from good brand, good company
- self-actualization probably doesn't come from McDonald's for
student workers, probably for their eventual field instead

When emphasis changed from customer to profit, the non-money
rewards were cut too (total compensation less).  People won't say
that though, instead they just won't want to come to work anymore
- have to increase pay (not likely to be done)
- hire lower priced labor (type of people willing to work there
  has changed)

Alignment model: (aligned for McDonald's)

- Management Preference (directive)
- Resource (low cost labor)
- Strategy (cost-leadership)
- Organization (hierarchical top-down)

The only place to pick up on changes is at the top because
organization is hierarchical.  Unfortunately for McDonald's,
the information from customers comes from the bottom.  Unable
to act on this information.

Need to explain a model in 1-2 sentences any time you use a model!
- less important to know every model than to show that you know
how to use them!

Models are nothing but maps.  Give guidance on which way to turn.
You'll find out if the model is a wrong one quickly, then you can
throw it out.

Practice runs will not be marked.  Complete freebies, but don't rest
on the practice marks.  Marks are relative to others in the class.

## GM Case ##
- set in their ways
- lost touch with customers
- status quo
- lots of brands
- all innovations tend to be uniform

5 Forces:
- entrants: threat became high as Japanese car makers penetrated
market with quality cars (GM should have reacted)
- rivals: [Yesterday's entrants become today's rivals]
- buyers:
- substitutes:
- suppliers:

Management Preference: Top-down (info flow tends to only flow
  downwards)
  - strong gatekeepers tend to push information to a positive bias
  since messengers don't want to be shot.  Lots of layers tends
  to force this.
Resources: only the physical needs met (in terms of Maslow)
  - tends to happen when very strong union
  - companies that have a militant union usually deserve it
    - if you're considering unionizing, look at your management
Organization: was huge (beyond hierarchical) in order to have
so many brands

Lots of brands is characteristic of growth portion of life-cycle
model. (Innovation stage would have few models, maturity stage
  tends to reduce because you are competing on cost)
  - this was fine for a while for GM

Once products reach maturity stage, they become more of commodities

Entry barriers get broken in between product life-cycle stages
because market conditions are changing
- There's an opening to be filled, competitors can be more flexible
- between growth and maturity stages
- prices fall low enough for disruption
- GM didn't see this happening though...

Company may need to change strategy with product life-cycle.
- If you're set up for a growing market but the market is becoming
mature, you need to realign strategy
  - either align to mature strategy
  - or adapt to new growth market (you already have the resources,
    R&D, capital)
    - may make more sense to look to new markets (hybrid, electric,
      hydrogen, etc...) rather than try to realign a massive
      organization with inertia (must be radical innovation,
      cannot be incremental)

GM could have adapted to new markets, but board level personnel
had oil interests in mind
- board has to be clear of conflicts of interest though!
- could have been the leader in the new market!

## Samsung Case ##
- opposite of GM slumber (developing so fast that safety can't
be adequately vetted)
- need for radical action (self-actualization)
- competition intensifying
- culture of Korea
- Samsung is slipping
- profit emphasis (decreases risk-taking ability)

In order to change, need to unfreeze, do the change, then refreeze
(need enough stress to melt the present status-quo, then refreeze the new changes in place)

originally:
- Management Preference: directive
- Resource: told to work
- Organization: hierarchical
- Strategy: low cost leader

After hotel room meeting:
- Management Preference: directive (reduced, started listening to
  customer)
- Resource: told to work (want good people, tried to hire U.S.
  individuals for innovation, need more entrepreneurship but
  Korean culture reduces this effectiveness)
- Organization: hierarchical (want flat)
- Strategy: Differentiation (threw model out of alignment)

Power distance creates compliance

In order to change a culture, you need to employ all 5 levels of
Maslow's hierarchy

Incremental vs. Radical Innovation

In collective societies (Europe/Asia), social risk is much higher
with radical change

Until 2014, the CEO was supplying the energy to make sure the voice
of the customer was heard.  Afterward, 3 CEOs made it harder to
do that.

The vision 2020 focused on profit rather than on customer (targeted
  $400B in sales).  An innovation benchmark would tell a much
  different story.

If you ask people what they need, all they will tell you are
incremental improvements

Leaders need to bring radical innovation

Failure is not an option - NASA Apollo 13.  Good leaders encourage
people to solve problems as part of radical change.  Not encouraging
(even though it's not active discouragement) sends enough message
that people don't have support required to do radical stuff.  If
you go with radical change, you don't have a choice to fail.

Despite appointing designers to executive decisions, internal
communication at all levels probably insufficient because of
collectivist culture

The way to likely fix this is to have a single CEO who is focused
on customers rather than profit
