# Exam 1 Prep #

## Chapter 1 ##

1. The text addresses two perspectives of leadership as well as their
implications. These two perspectives are
  - **A. romantic and external control.**
  - B. external control and unromantic.
  - C. romantic and unromantic.
  - D. romantic and internal control.

2. A CEO made a lot of mistakes in assessing the market and the competitive
conditions and improperly redesigning the organization into numerous business
units. Such errors led to significant performance declines. According to the
text, this example illustrates the __________ perspective of leadership.
  - A. operational
  - B. external control
  - C. internal mechanism
  - **D. romantic**

3. According to the external control view of leadership, which of the following
factors would not be considered an external factor that might positively or
negatively affect a firm's success?
  - **A. company employee morale**
  - B. economic downturns
  - C. governmental legislation
  - D. outbreak of war

4. Melvin Alexander, executive director of Principled Solutions Enterprise, a
management consulting firm specializing in health care, suggests that
environmental changes oblige firms to make strategic changes in order to
survive. Which of the following is one of the strategic changes he foresees
will occur in the next three to five years?
  - **A. changes in the behavior of the health care consumers**
  - B. reduction in the number of available medical doctors
  - C. increases in the number of locations of health care facilities
  - D. decreases in information technology investment

5. According to the text, the strategic management process entails three ongoing processes. They are
  - **A. analyses, decisions, and actions.**
  - B. analyses, synthesis, and decisions.
  - C. analyses, actions, and synthesis.
  - D. analyses, evaluation, and critique.

6. Management innovations such as total quality, benchmarking, and business
process reengineering cannot lead to sustainable competitive advantage because
  - **A. every company is trying to implement them.**
  - B. companies that have implemented these techniques have lost money.
  - C. there is no proof that these techniques work.
  - D. they cost too much money and effort to implement.

7. The organizational versus the individual rationality perspective suggests
that objectives that are
  - A. good for a functional area are always good for the overall organization.
  - B. best for one functional area will never be best for all functional areas.
  - C. good for the overall organization are always best for a functional area.
  - **D. best for a functional area may not be best for the overall
  organization.**

8. The four key attributes of strategic management include the idea that
strategy must
  - **A. be directed toward overall organizational goals and objectives.**
  - B. focus only on competitor strengths.
  - C. be focused on only one specific area of an organization.
  - D. be focused only on long-term objectives.

9. The four key attributes of strategic management include all of the following except
  - A. recognizing the trade-offs between effectiveness and efficiency.
  - **B. emphasis on the attainment of short-term objectives.**
  - C. including multiple stakeholder interests in decision making.
  - D. incorporating both short-term and long-term perspectives.

10. Effectiveness is often defined as
  - A. doing things right.
  - B. stakeholder satisfaction.
  - **C. doing the right thing.**
  - D. productivity enhancement.

11. In choosing to focus on stakeholders, which of the following will not lead
to success for a manager?
  - A. shareholders and employees
  - **B. customers only** *(Believe this is the answer b/c of the word "only")*
  - C. employees and suppliers
  - D. customers and the community at large

12. In strategic management, both the short-term and long-term perspectives
need to be considered because
  - A. shareholders only care about long-term returns.
  - B. long-term vision precludes the analysis of present operating needs.
  - **C. the creative tension between the two forces managers to develop more
  successful strategy.**
  - D. shareholder value is only measured by short-term returns.

13. Strategic management involves the recognition of trade-offs between
effectiveness and
  - A. value.
  - **B. efficiency.**
  - C. cost.
  - D. return on investment.

14. All of the following are ambidextrous behaviors except
   - **A. intensely focusing on the responsibilities of one individual and
   maximizing the output of the department in the organization in which that
   individual works.**
  - B. being cooperative and seeking opportunities to combine personal efforts
  with that of others.
  - C. taking initiative and being alert to opportunities beyond the job
   description.
  - D. being brokers, always looking to build internal linkages.

15. Ambidextrous behaviors in individuals illustrate how a dual capacity for
_______ can be woven into the fabric of an organization at the individual level.
  - **A. alignment and adaptability**
  - B. alignment and efficiency
  - C. alignment and transparency
  - D. alignment and internal linkages

16. According to Henry Mintzberg, the final realized strategy of a firm is
  - A. a combination of deliberate and differentiation strategies.
  - B. a result of unrealized intended strategy.
  - C. not deliberate.
  - **D. a combination of deliberate and emergent strategies.**

17. __________ may be considered the advance work that must be done in order to
effectively formulate and implement strategies.
  - A. Corporate entrepreneurship
  - **B. Strategy analysis**
  - C. Goal setting
  - D. Organizational design

18. Strategy analysis is the starting point of the strategic management process
and consists of the
  - A. analysis of the relevant internal and external environmental factors
  only.
  - **B. matching of vision, mission, and objectives with the relevant internal
  and external environmental factors.**
  - C. analysis only of the vision, mission, and objectives of the firm.
  - D. analysis of relevant competitors only.

19. Strategy formulation at the business level addresses best how to compete in
a given business:
  - A. to thwart entry of new rivals
  - B. to reduce costs
  - **C. to attain competitive advantage**
  - D. to decrease buyer power

20. Corporate level strategy focuses on what businesses to compete in and
  - A. how the firm can work as a stand-alone entity.
  - B. how the firm can create more value by operating alone.
  - **C. how business can be managed to achieve synergy.**
  - D. how business can be managed to reduce synergy.

21. Corporate-level strategy looks at how to manage the ______ of its
businesses to create synergies.
  - A. stock prices
  - **B. portfolio**
  - C. market pricing
  - D. competitors

22. Entering foreign markets requires firms to ascertain foremost how they will
attain
  - A. low costs.
  - B. market share.
  - C. low returns on investment.
  - **D. competitive advantage.**

23. New value creation is a major engine for economic growth and is the main
focus of _______________ strategy.
  - A. business-level
  - B. portfolio
  - **C. entrepreneurial**
  - D. corporate-level

24. Two types of strategic control that firms must exercise for good strategy implementation are
  - A. confrontational and behavioral.
  - B. behavioral and financial.
  - C. informational and confrontational.
  - **D. informational and behavioral.**

25. Effective organizational design means that firms must have ________ that
are consistent with their strategy.
  - A. adopters and plans
  - B. designs and plans
  - C. adopters and designs
  - **D. organizational structures and designs**

26. Learning organizations permit the entire organization to benefit from
____________ talents.
  - A. internal and collective
  - B. external and individual
  - C. internal and external
  - **D. individual and collective**

27. Effective leaders set a direction and develop an organization so that it is
committed to excellence and ___________ behavior.
  - A. positive
  - **B. ethical**
  - C. strategic
  - D. performant

28. Strategies should be formulated that enhance foremost the ____________
capacity of a firm.
  - A. implementation
  - **B. innovative**
  - C. learning
  - D. business-level

29. The three participants in corporate governance are the shareholders,
  - A. labor unions, and employees.
  - B. banks and lending institutions, and management.
  - **C. board of directors, and management.**
  - D. board of directors, and employees.

30. While working to prioritize and fulfill their responsibilities, members of
the board of directors of an organization should
  - A. represent their own interests.
  - **B. represent the interests of the shareholders.**
  - C. direct all actions of the CEO.
  - D. emphasize the importance of short-term goals.

31. Members of boards of directors are
  - A. appointed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
  - B. only allowed to serve one term of four years.
  - **C. elected by the shareholders as their representatives.**
  - D. elected by the public.

32. An organization is responsible to many different entities. In order to meet
the demands of these groups, organizations must participate in stakeholder
management. Stakeholder management means that
  - A. stakeholders and managers inevitably work at cross-purposes.
  - **B. interests of the stockholders are not the only interests that matter.**
  - C. stakeholders are second in importance to the stockholders.
  - D. all stakeholders receive financial rewards.

33. Stakeholders are
  - A. creditors who hold a lien on the assets of the organization.
  - B. a new way to describe stockholders.
  - C. attorneys and their clients who sue the organization.
  - **D. individuals, groups, and organizations who have a stake in the success
  of the organization.**

34. Procter and Gamble has perfected a technique for compacting cleaning powder
into a liquid concentration. Consumers, retailers, shipping and wholesalers,
and environmentalists all have benefited from the resulting change in consumer
shopping habits and the revolution in industry supply-chain economics.
According to the text, this is an example of
  - **A. stakeholder symbiosis.**
  - B. rewarding stakeholders.
  - C. zero-sum relationship among stakeholders.
  - D. emphasizing financial returns.

35. There are several perspectives of competition. One perspective is zero-sum
thinking. Zero-sum thinking means that
  - A. everyone in the organization shares gains and losses equally.
  - B. all parts of the organization gain at no loss.
  - C. in order for someone to gain others must experience no gain or benefit.
  - **D. one can only gain at the expense of someone else.**

36. Managers should do more than focus on short-term financial performance. One
concept that helps managers do this is stakeholder symbiosis. This means that
  - A. one can only gain at the expense of someone else.
  - **B. stakeholders are dependent on each other for their success.**
  - C. stakeholders look out for their individual interests.
  - D. all stakeholders want to maximize shareholder returns.

37. Employee stakeholders are concerned with
  - **A. wages, benefits, and job security.**
  - B. taxes, warranties, and regulations.
  - C. good citizenship behavior.
  - D. dividends.

38. Stockholders as a stakeholder group are interested primarily by
  - A. taxes and compliance with regulations.
  - **B. dividends and capital appreciation.**
  - C. payment of interest and repayment of principal.
  - D. value and warranties.

39. The Sustainable Apparel Coalition accounts for more than one-third of the
global
  - **A. apparel and footwear industry.**
  - B. consumer product industry.
  - C. apparel and washing product industry.
  - D. refinery industry.

40. Wall Street executives have received excessive bonus pay in the past. This
concerns which of the following stakeholder groups most directly?
  - **A. stockholders**
  - B. government
  - C. creditors
  - D. suppliers

41. Supplier stakeholders are concerned with
  - A. safe working conditions.
  - B. capital appreciation.
  - **C. assurance of a continued relationship with the firm.**
  - D. employee benefits.

42. Community stakeholders are concerned primarily with
  - A. repayment of principal.
  - **B. corporate citizenship behavior.**
  - C. capital appreciation.
  - D. product warranties.

43. Firms must be aware of goals other than short-term profit maximization. One
area of concern should be social responsibility, which is the
  - A. idea that organizations are solely responsible to local citizens.
  - B. idea that businesses are responsible for maintaining a healthy social
  climate for their employees.
  - C. fact that court costs could impact the financial bottom line.
  - **D. expectation that business will strive to improve the overall welfare
  of society.**

44. According to the text, the triple bottom line approach to corporate
accounting includes which three components?
  - A. financial, organizational, and customer
  - B. financial, environmental, and customer
  - C. financial, organizational, and psychological
  - **D. financial, environmental, and social**

45. Demands for greater corporate responsibility have accelerated today. They
focus on issues such as
  - **A. labor standards and environmental sustainability.**
  - B. product benefits.
  - C. taxation.
  - D. service benefits.

46. A key stakeholder group that is particularly susceptible to corporate
social responsibility (CSR) initiatives is
  - **A. consumers.**
  - B. suppliers.
  - C. rivals.
  - D. government agencies.

47. According to the Corporate Citizenship poll conducted by Cone
Communications, most Americans say they would be likely to switch brands to one
associated with a good cause, if there are similarities between
  - A. price and availability.
  - B. price and durability.
  - C. availability and quality.
  - **D. price and quality.**

48. According to a CEO survey by Accenture, __________________ are not mutually
exclusive corporate goals.
  - A. ROI and quality
  - B. availability and ROI
  - C. quality and profitability
  - **D. sustainability and profitability**

49. The Clorox Green Works line of plant-based cleaning materials captured 42
percent of the natural cleaning products market in its first year. This is an
example of the benefit of
  - A. marketing programs.
  - B. process management.
  - C. cost reduction efforts.
  - **D. sustainability efforts.**

50. Northrup Grumman saved $2 million in energy costs at a single facility by
installing reflective roofs and fluorescent lighting, replacing old equipment,
and making minor temperature and humidity-level adjustments. This is an example
of the benefit of
  - A. process management.
  - **B. sustainability efforts.**
  - C. marketing programs.
  - D. increasing revenue efforts.

51. The Fairmont Royal York in Toronto invested $25,000 in an energy
conservation program to replace leaky steam traps and fix leaks, which resulted
in an annual savings of over $200,000. This is an example of a sustainability
effort to
  - A. decrease revenue.
  - B. increase innovation.
  - **C. lower costs.**
  - D. increase customers.

52. The ROI on sustainability efforts can be difficult to quantify because
  - **A. the payback period is on a different time frame.**
  - B. an excess of necessary data for accurate calculation is readily
  available.
  - C. benefits from such projects are tangible.
  - D. the payback period is on the same time frame.

53. Sustainability programs often find their success beyond company boundaries,
thus ______ systems and _____ metrics cannot capture all of the relevant
numbers.
  - A. internal; internal
  - **B. internal; process**
  - C. external; bio
  - D. external; external

54. Traditional financial models are built around relatively easy-to-measure,
monetized results; whereas, the benefits of sustainability projects involve
  - **A. fuzzy intangibles.**
  - B. fuzzy tangibles.
  - C. clear intangibles.
  - D. clear tangibles.

55. The case for sustainability projects needs to be made on the basis of a
more holistic and comprehensive understanding of all the _____________ benefits.
  - **A. tangible and intangible**
  - B. measurable and unmeasurable
  - C. measurable and physical
  - D. financial and physical

56. Some benefits of sustainability projects include
  - A. displeasing communities.
  - B. lagging behind regulations.
  - **C. reducing risks.**
  - D. ignoring employee morale.

57. Many organizations have a large number of functional areas with very
diverse and sometimes competing interests. Such organizations will be most
effective if
  - **A. functional areas work together to attain overall goals.**
  - B. management and employees have separate goals.
  - C. goals are defined at the bottom and implemented at the top.
  - D. each functional area focuses on achieving their own goals.

58. Strategy formulation and implementation is a challenging ongoing process.
To be effective, it should not involve
  - A. line and staff managers.
  - B. the board of directors, CEO, and CFO.
  - **C. rivals.**
  - D. the CEO and the board of directors.

59. The text argues that a strategic perspective in an organization should be
emphasized
  - **A. throughout the organization.**
  - B. at the middle of the organization.
  - C. from the bottom up.
  - D. at the top of the organization.

60. Peter Senge, of MIT, recognized three types of leaders. __________ are
individuals that, although having little positional power and formal authority,
generate their power through the conviction and clarity of their ideas.
  - A. Shop floor leaders
  - B. Executive leaders
  - C. Local line leaders
  - **D. Internal networkers**

61. Peter Senge, of MIT, recognized three types of leaders. These individuals
champion and guide ideas, create a learning infrastructure, and establish a
domain for taking action.
  - A. local line leaders
  - B. shop floor leaders
  - **C. executive leaders**
  - D. internal networkers

62. Leadership is a necessary (but not sufficient) condition for organizational
success. Leaders should emerge at which level(s) of an organization?
  - A. in the middle
  - B. only during times of change
  - C. only at the top
  - **D. throughout the organization**

63. Local line leaders have __________ responsibility.
  - **A. profit-and-loss**
  - B. executive
  - C. no
  - D. local

64. Internal networks generate their power through the _____________ of their
ideas.
  - **A. conviction and clarity**
  - B. approval and awareness
  - C. validity and correctness
  - D. validation and recognition

65. Executive leaders champion and guide ideas by
  - **A. creating a learning infrastructure.**
  - B. reinforcing ideas that did not work.
  - C. increasing their personal power.
  - D. validating their formal authority.

66. Richard Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, empowers his companies
through a(n) _______ structure in which anyone can bring forth new ideas.
  - A. multi-level
  - B. hierarchal
  - **C. informal**
  - D. formal

67. Transformational change involves
  - A. little training.
  - B. no employee development.
  - C. few incentives.
  - **D. extensive communication.**

68. Whirlpool's transformation under corporate vice president Nancy Snyder
included financial investments in
  - A. paying down borrowed debt.
  - B. community development.
  - C. shareholder dividends.
  - **D. capital spending.**

69. Methods by which successful executives show their interest in learning what
others are thinking include
  - **A. holding town hall meetings and consulting employees on what they would
  do if in charge.**
  - B. holding retreats and consulting rivals on what they would do if in
  charge.
  - C. holding town hall meetings and consulting bankers on what they would do
  if in charge.
  - D. consulting rivals and consulting investment bankers.

70. Tim Brown, CEO of IDEO, believes that the ________ of a person should not
dictate the level of influence their ideas should be accorded.
  - A. education
  - **B. position**
  - C. seniority
  - D. age

71. The hierarchy of organizational goals is in this order (least specific to
  most specific):
  - A. mission statements, strategic objectives, vision statements
  - B. vision statements, strategic objectives, mission statements
  - C. mission statements, vision statements, strategic objectives
  - **D. vision statements, mission statements, strategic objectives**

72. Vision statements are used to create a better understanding of the overall
purpose and direction of the organization. Vision statements
  - **A. evoke powerful and compelling mental images.**
  - B. provide specific objectives.
  - C. set organizational structure.
  - D. are very specific.

73. Effective vision statements include
  - A. strategic posturing and future objectives.
  - B. financial objectives and projected figures.
  - **C. a brief statement of the company's direction.**
  - D. all strategic directions of the organization.

74. WellPoint Health Network states: WellPoint will redefine our industry:
through a new generation of consumer-friendly products that put individuals
back in control of their future. This is an example of a
  - A. line manager's individual goal.
  - **B. vision statement.**
  - C. vague statement of direction.
  - D. strategic objective.

75. Although such visions cannot be accurately measured by a specific indicator
of how well they are being achieved, they do provide a fundamental statement of
the __________ of an organization.
  - A. credibility
  - **B. values, aspirations, and goals**
  - C. expected returns and limitations
  - D. outstanding debt

76. In contrast to the vision of an organization, its mission should
  - **A. encompass both the purpose of the company as well as the basis of
  competition.**
  - B. be shorter in length.
  - C. be less detailed.
  - D. encompass all the major rules and regulations of the corporate work
  force.

77. The vision and mission statements of a company set the overall direction of
the organization. Strategic objectives serve what role?
  - A. are only clarified by the board of directors
  - **B. operationalize the mission statement**
  - C. are a shorter version of the mission statement
  - D. modify the mission statement

78. Successful organizations are effective in motivating people. Employees work
best when
  - **A. they are striving toward specific goals.**
  - B. they are guided by an abstract mission statement.
  - C. they are asked to do their best.
  - D. work requirements are vague and unclear.

79. Fortune Brands states they will cut corporate overhead costs by $30 million
a year. This is an example of a
  - A. vision statement.
  - **B. financial strategic objective.**
  - C. mission statement.
  - D. nonfinancial strategic objective.

80. We want to be the top-ranked supplier to our customers. (PPG) This is an
example of a
  - A. mission statement.
  - B. financial strategic objective.
  - **C. nonfinancial strategic objective.**
  - D. vision statement.

81. In large organizations, conflicts can arise between functional areas. In
order to resolve these conflicts, strategic objectives
  - A. cause debate and increase conflict.
  - **B. help resolve conflicts through their common purpose.**
  - C. align departments toward departmental goals.
  - D. put financial objectives above human considerations.

82. Which of the following is not an example of a financial strategic objective?
  - A. Generate Internet-related revenue of $1.5 billion. (AutoNation)
  - B. Increase sales growth 6 percent to 8 percent and accelerate core net
  earnings growth from 13 percent to 15 percent per share in each of the next 5
  years. (Procter & Gamble)
  - **C. Reduce volatile air emissions 15 percent by 2015  from 2010  base
  year, indexed to net sales. (3M)**
  - D. Cut corporate overhead costs by $30 million per year. (Fortune Brands)

83. In large organizations, the potential exists for different parts of an
organization to pursue its own goals rather than the overall company goals.
Proper _______ can help to resolve conflicts when they arise.
  - A. organization structure
  - B. vision statements
  - **C. objectives**
  - D. mission statements

## Chapter 2 ##

84. Two of the key inputs to developing forecasts discussed in the text are
  - A. assessing internal strengths and environmental scanning.
  - **B. environmental scanning and competitive intelligence.**
  - C. environmental scanning and a SWOT analysis.
  - D. environmental scanning and stakeholder identification.

85. Salemi Industries launched Cell Zone unsuccessfully in 2005  because it did
not understand the market demand for its new product. This is an example of
  - A. assessing internal strengths.
  - B. vision statement evaluation.
  - **C. environmental scanning.**
  - D. mission statement evaluation.

86. Environmental analysis requires continual questioning of all of these assumptions except
  - A. a priori ideas about the structure of the relevant industry.
  - B. presuppositions about who is and is not a competitor.
  - **C. continual updating of environmental knowledge.**
  - D. biases about how to make money in the industry.

87. Firms that were successful in the past can fail today because
  - A. their financial situation is resilient.
  - **B. the company strategy is outdated.**
  - C. management monitors the relevant environmental factors regularly.
  - D. they keep pace with changes in the nature of competition.

88. Examples of how to improve perceptual acuity DO NOT include:
  - A. A CEO meets with the company management team regularly to analyze
  current world events and their potential impact on the company.
  - B. Outsiders are brought in to the board meeting to critique the company
  strategy, which considers the new information in its potential revamping of
  the strategy.
  - C. A CEO meets with other CEOs of non-competing companies to examine the
  world from multiple perspectives and then shares the results with his own
  management team.
  - **D. A CEO meets with direct competitors to analyze current industry trends.
  The CEOs share their conclusions with their respective companies.**

89. Perceptual acuity requires all of the following except
  - A. a compulsive fixation on external environmental monitoring.
  - **B. a refusal to consult with others.**
  - C. an ability to sense what is coming.
  - D. the ability to detect early warning signals of environmental changes.

90. Two non-competing global firms meet quarterly to discuss multiple
perspectives on world trends. This is an example of how to improve
  - A. internal scanning.
  - B. stakeholder management.
  - **C. perceptual acuity.**
  - D. financial returns.

91. Which of the following is not an input to develop forecasts?
  - A. environmental scanning
  - **B. stakeholder management**
  - C. competitor intelligence
  - D. environmental monitoring

92. Boards of directors use outsiders to critique their strategy. This is
necessary to improve mostly
  - **A. perceptual acuity.**
  - B. financial returns.
  - C. organizational hierarchy.
  - D. employee relations.

93. When the management frame of reference gets out of touch with the realities
of the actual business situation, what can happen to the firm?
  - A. It becomes easier to maintain competitive advantage.
  - B. Management gets across-the-board raises.
  - C. Management perceptual acuity improves.
  - **D. The company business strategy no longer works.**

94. Corporate retreats do not
  - A. oblige management to automatically change strategy.
  - **B. guarantee positive consumer response to new products.** (*true but not
    relevant?*)
  - C. give companies an opportunity to look beyond their own industries.
  - D. permit companies to discuss larger marketplace trends.

95. Why must successful managers recognize opportunities and threats in their
company external environment?
  - A. If they identify all of the environmental opportunities, they are
  guaranteed to acquire large market share.
  - **B. If they miscalculate the market, opportunities will be lost.**
  - C. If they misread the market, they are likely to become rich.
  - D. If they identify all of the environmental threats, they are guaranteed to acquire large market share.

96. _____________ tracks the evolution of environmental trends, sequences of
events, or streams of activities.
  - **A. Environmental monitoring**
  - B. Environmental scanning
  - C. Competitive intelligence
  - D. Environmental surveying

97. Taking advantage of the increasing penetration of personal computers in
American homes, the Mayo Clinic transformed itself as a provider of
health-related knowledge and expertise. It took advantage of the ______ trends
of the _______ in the prices of PCs and the ____________ presence of PCs in
virtually every home in the United States.
  - **A. hard; decrease; increasing**
  - B. soft; increase; increasing
  - C. hard; decrease; decreasing
  - D. soft; decrease; decreasing

98. Scanning the general environment would identify information on
  - **A. the aging population and ethnic shifts.**
  - B. competitive rivalry.
  - C. customer and firm bargaining power.
  - D. substitute goods.

99. Which of the following is not an example of corporate competitive analysis?
  - **A. consumers comparing product offers online**
  - B. car manufacturers offering sales incentives based on rival offers
  - C. airlines changing hundreds of fares daily in response to competitor
  tactics
  - D. banks tracking home loans

100. Gathering competitive intelligence
  - A. minimizes the need to obtain information in the public domain.
  - B. is considered unethical.
  - C. is illegal.
  - **D. is good business practice.**

101. Environmental forecasting does not involve plausible projections about the
________ of environmental change.
  - **A. lack of intensity**
  - B. speed
  - C. scope
  - D. direction

102. Which of the following websites is not an example of one used routinely for corporate competitive
intelligence gathering?
  - A. Slideshare
  - **B. Duolingo**
  - C. YouTube
  - D. Quora

103. Executives must be careful to avoid spending so much time and effort
tracking the actions of ___________ that they ignore ____________.
  - A. customers; competitors
  - B. existing customers; existing competitors
  - C. competitors; customers
  - **D. traditional competitors; new competitors**

104. Banks and airlines are examples of two industries that track competitor
offers continually. This is called the process of gathering
  - A. past decisions.
  - **B. competitive intelligence.**
  - C. consumer responses.
  - D. mainline information.

105.  Which of the following would not lead a manager to believe that an
ethical concern exists?
  - A. Have I done something to circumvent a system intended to secure or
  protect information?
  - B. Have I done anything that coerced somebody to share this information?
  - C. Have I misled anybody in order to gain access?
  - **D. Is the contemplated technique for gathering information relevant?**

106. In 1977 , Kenneth H. Olsen, then president of Digital Equipment Corp.,
announced that there was no reason for individuals to have a computer in their
home. Long since disproven, this is an example of
  - **A. underestimation of uncertainty.**
  - B. good prediction skills.
  - C. excellent forecasting.
  - D. overestimation of uncertainty.

107. It is important to question the reliability of forecasts because
  - **A. if predictions are too low, a company like Motel 6 might build too
  many units and thus have a surplus of capacity.**
  - B. uncertainty is black and white and therefore the gray areas are
  unimportant.
  - C. the growth new industries, such as that of telecommunications, cannot be
  predicted.
  - D. underestimating uncertainty can lead to good competitive strategies.

108. A danger of forecasting discussed in the text is that
  - **A. managers may view uncertainty as black and white while ignoring
  important gray areas.**
  - B. the retrospective nature of forecasting provides little information
  about the future.
  - C. it can create legal problems for the firm if regulators discover the
  company is making forecasts.
  - D. in most cases, the expense of collecting the necessary data exceeds the
  benefit.

109. PPG Industries, the Pittsburgh-based manufacturer of paints, coatings,
optical products, specialty materials, chemicals, glass, and fiber glass
suffered serious failures in 1986  and 1987 when it attempted to diversify its
offers. It used a technique to help it identify possible future strategies.
What was it?
  - A. competitive intelligence
  - **B. scenario analysis**
  - C. monitoring
  - D. crowdsourcing

110. SWOT analysis is a framework for analyzing the internal and external
environment of a company. It consists of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities,
and threats. According to a SWOT analysis, which of the following is not an
aspect that the strategy of the firm must follow?
  - **A. build on its weaknesses**
  - B. protect the firm from the threats
  - C. take advantage of the opportunities presented by the environment
  - D. remedy the weaknesses or work around them

111. Scenario planning is a useful technique for firms competing in industries
characterized by __________ and ____________.
  - A. predictability; stability
  - B. low profit margins; stability
  - C. high profit margins; stability
  - **D. unpredictability; change**

112. Scenario analysis draws on a range of disciplines and interests. It is a
more _______ approach to forecasting.
  - A. basic
  - B. fundamental
  - **C. in-depth**
  - D. superficial

113. In the SWOT framework, ______________ are the same for all firms in the
same competitive environment.
  - A. weaknesses and threats
  - B. strengths and weaknesses
  - C. strengths and opportunities
  - **D. opportunities and threats**

114. In the SWOT framework, ______________ are internal factors that are
specific to the company.
  - A. threats and weaknesses
  - B. strengths and threats
  - C. strengths and opportunities
  - **D. strengths and weaknesses**

115. Heightened concern with fitness might be a threat to some companies and an
opportunity to others. In the SWOT framework, these are
  - **A. external environmental factors.**
  - B. internal environmental factors.
  - C. not relevant external environmental factors.
  - D. both internal and external environmental factors.

116. By emphasizing the importance of identifying opportunities and threats,
the SWOT framework makes firms act ________ rather than ___________.
  - **A. proactively; reactively**
  - B. immediately; eventually
  - C. quickly; slowly
  - D. intelligently; uninformed

117. SWOT analysis raises awareness about the role of strategy in creating a
match between the environmental conditions and ______________ of the firm.
  - A. internal opportunities and threats
  - B. internal weaknesses and opportunities
  - C. internal strengths and opportunities
  - **D. internal strengths and weaknesses**

118. Steve Jobs, former chairman of Apple, demonstrated that ___________ also
are important in forecasting.
  - A. character and ability
  - B. imagination and training
  - **C. intuition and judgment**
  - D. training and experience

119. Which of the following is not a correct usage of the SWOT framework?
  - A. take advantage of the opportunities presented by the environment
  - B. remedy the weaknesses or work around them
  - C. build on its strengths
  - **D. protect the firm from environmental weaknesses**

120. The aging of the population, changes in ethnic composition, and effects of
the baby boom are __________ changes.
  - **A. demographic**
  - B. global
  - C. sociocultural
  - D. macroeconomic

121. Larger numbers of women entering the work force since the early 1970s is
an example of
  - A. political and legal environmental changes.
  - **B. sociocultural changes.**
  - C. demographic changes.
  - D. technological developments.

122. Emerging sociocultural changes in the environment include
  - A. progressively less disposable income by consumers.
  - B. changes in the geographic distribution of the population.
  - C. changes in the ethnic composition.
  - **D. the increasing educational attainment of women in the past decade.**

123. All of the following are important elements of the political and legal
segment of the general environment except
  - A. increases in the federally mandated minimum wage.
  - **B. the increased use of Internet technology.**
  - C. the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
  - D. the deregulation of utilities.

124. Which of the following would be considered part of the general environment
of a firm?
  - A. decreased entry barriers
  - B. increased bargaining power of the firm's suppliers
  - C. increased competitive intensity
  - **D. higher unemployment rates**

125. Interest-rate increases have a __________ impact on the residential home
construction industry and a __________ effect on industries that produce
consumer necessities such as prescription drugs or basic grocery items.
  - A. negative; positive
  - B. positive; negative
  - **C. negative; negligible**
  - D. positive; negligible

126. In the general environment, many relationships exist among the various
elements. General environmental trends can have positive and negative impacts
on various industries. For example, the aging population might have a ______
impact on the health care industry and a ______ impact on the baby product
industry. These are called _____________ impacts.
  - A. negative; positive; sociocultural
  - **B. positive; negative; demographic**
  - C. positive; negative; technological
  - D. negative; positive; demographic

127. In the general environment, which of the following is not a demographic
trend?
  - **A. more women in the workforce**
  - B. changes in ethnic composition
  - C. aging population
  - D. greater disparities in income levels

128. Lowes has found that women prefer to do larger home-improvement projects
with a man, whether a boyfriend, husband, or neighbor. As a result, in addition
to its recipe card classes (that explain various projects that take only one
weekend), Lowes offers co-ed store clinics for projects like sink installation.
This is an example of which segment of the general environment?
  - A. demographic
  - B. political and legal
  - **C. sociocultural**
  - D. economic

129. Doctors and other health professionals say it is becoming harder to stay
on the right side of the rules as billing requirements grow more convoluted.
This is an example of which segment of the general environment?
  - A. economic
  - B. demographic
  - **C. political and legal**
  - D. sociocultural

130. Crowdsourcing is one form of technology that affects multiple segments of
the general environment. Which of the following is not an example of
crowdsourcing?
  - **A. The New York Times online**
  - B. Wikipedia
  - C. Yelp online customer comments
  - D. The Linux open-source operating system

131. Using the Cuusoo System, Lego develops ideas that are generated by the
many children and adults who create a model, take photos, write project
descriptions, and submit their idea on the Lego website. This is an example of
using __________ to develop new products.
  - A. sociocultural data
  - B. demographic data
  - C. technological data
  - **D. crowdsourcing**

132. Which is considered a force in the five-forces model?
  - **A. rivalry among competing firms**
  - B. recent technological innovation
  - C. increased deregulation in an industry
  - D. the threat of government intervention

133. Which of the following firms would likely pose the least competitive
threat?
  - A. a firm in the same industry and in the same strategic group
  - B. a firm in the same industry and in the nearest strategic group looking
  to join your group
  - **C. a competitor to your product where a high switching cost exists**
  - D. a firm that produces substitute goods to your product line

134. The threat of new entrants is high when there are
  - A. high differentiation among competitors products and services.
  - B. high switching costs.
  - **C. low economies of scale.**
  - D. high capital requirements.

135. Product differentiation by incumbents act as an entry barrier because
  - A. incumbents will take legal action if new entrants do not differentiate
  their products.
  - B. new entrants cannot differentiate their products.
  - **C. new entrants will have to spend heavily to overcome existing customer
  loyalties.**
  - D. it helps a firm to derive greater economies of scale.

136. Which of the following would be an entry barrier?
  - A. low switching costs
  - B. low capital requirements
  - **C. large economies of scale**
  - D. easy access to raw materials

137. An automobile manufacturer acquires a rental car company. This is an
example of
  - A. product differentiation.
  - B. backward integration.
  - C. economies of scale.
  - **D. forward integration.**

138. The bargaining power of the buyer is greater than that of the supplier when
  - **A. the buyer profit margin is low.**
  - B. cost savings from the supplier's product are minimal.
  - C. threat of backward integration by buyers is low.
  - D. volume of purchase is low.

139. Buyer power will be greater when
  - A. the products purchased are highly differentiated.
  - B. the industry product is very important to the quality of the buyer end
  products or services.
  - **C. it is concentrated or when a buyer group purchases large volumes
  relative to seller sales.**
  - D. there are high switching costs.

140. The bargaining power of suppliers increases as
  - A. more suppliers enter the market.
  - **B. threat of forward integration by suppliers increases.**
  - C. switching costs for buyers decrease.
  - D. importance of buyers to supplier group increases.

141. New communication technology can impact seemingly unrelated industries
such as the airline industry. This would be an example of a
  - A. forward integration.
  - B. threat of entry.
  - **C. threat of substitute products.**
  - D. backward integration.

142. The bargaining power of suppliers is enhanced under the following market
condition:
  - A. low differentiation of the supplier products.
  - **B. dominance by a few suppliers.**
  - C. greater availability of substitute products.
  - D. no threat of forward integration.

143. In the Five-Forces model, conditions under which a supplier group can be
powerful include all of the following except
  - A. dominance by a few suppliers.
  - B. high differentiation by the supplier.
  - **C. readily available substitute products.**
  - D. lack of importance of the buyer to the supplier group.

144. Because the Internet lowers barriers to entry in most industries, it
  - **A. increases the threat of new entrants.**
  - B. makes it easier to build customer loyalty.
  - C. decreases the threat of new entrants.
  - D. increases supplier power.

145. End users are not
  - A. usually the C in B2C.
  - B. the final consumers in a distribution channel.
  - C. likely to have greater bargaining power because of the Internet.
  - **D. the first customers in a distribution channel.**

146. Incumbent firms may enjoy increased bargaining power because the Internet
  - **A. diminishes the power of many distribution channel intermediaries.**
  - B. increases channel conflict.
  - C. has reduced the number of wholesalers and distributors.
  - D. focuses marketing efforts on end users.

147. Supplier power has increased because of the Internet for all of the
following reasons except
  - A. the growth of new Web-based businesses has created more outlets for
  suppliers to sell to.
  - B. the process of disintermediation makes it possible for some suppliers to
  reach end users directly.
  - **C. some suppliers have created Web-based purchasing systems that encourage
  switching.**
  - D. software that links buyers to a supplier's website has created rapid,
  low-cost order capabilities.

148. In general, the threat of substitutes is heightened because the Internet
  - **A. introduces new ways to accomplish the same task.**
  - B. lowers barriers to entry.
  - C. increases output per unit of cost.
  - D. lowers switching costs.

149. How do infomediaries and consumer information websites increase the
intensity of competitive rivalry?
  - A. by highlighting unique selling advantages of a firm
  - B. by making competitors in cyberspace seem less equally balanced
  - **C. by consolidating the marketing message that consumers use to make a
  purchase decision**
  - D. by shifting customers away from issues of price

150. The value net is a game-theoretic approach that
  - A. uses network analysis to understand the relationships among different
  companies.
  - B. helps us to understand the evolution of the five forces over time.
  - **C. is a way to analyze how the interactions of all the players in a game
  affect the firm.**
  - D. extends the value chain analysis.

151. In the value net analysis, complementors are
  - A. customers who compliment the company for their good products and
  services.
  - **B. firms that produce products that have a positive impact on company
  product value.**
  - C. firms that produce substitute products.
  - D. firms that supply critical inputs to a company.

152. Complements are products or services that have a potential impact on the
_________ of the products or services of that company.
  - A. availability
  - B. substitutability
  - C. cost
  - **D. value**

153. Nintendo built a security chip into its game console hardware and then
licensed the right to develop games to outside firms. These firms paid a
royalty to Nintendo for each copy of the game sold. This is an example of
Nintendo using _________ products.
  - A. unrelated
  - B. differentiated
  - **C. complement**
  - D. substitute

154. The Apple iPod was enormously successful due in large part to the company
strategy of using
  - A. sophisticated software.
  - B. technical savvy.
  - **C. complementors.**
  - D. substitute products.

155. Elements of the five forces can be quantified. This is important for
analyzing industry structure. Which of the following is not an example of an
element that can be quantified?
  - **A. the governmental regulatory policy**
  - B. the percentage of the buyer total cost accounted for by the industry product
  - C. the percentage of industry sales required to fill a plant or operate a logistical network to efficient scale
  - D. the buyer switching cost

156. Strategic groups consist of a group of
  - A. top executives that makes strategies for a company.
  - B. firms within an industry that decides to collude rather than compete
  with each other so that they can increase their profits.
  - **C. firms within an industry that follows similar strategies.**
  - D. executives drawn from different companies within an industry that makes
  decisions on industry standards.

157. Which of the following statements about strategic groups is false?
  - A. Two assumptions are made: (1) no two firms are totally different, (2) no
  two firms are exactly the same.
  - **B. Strategic groupings are of little help to a firm in assessing mobility
  barriers that protect a group from attacks by other groups.**
  - C. Strategic groups help chart the future directions of firm strategies.
  - D. Strategic groups are helpful in thinking through the implications of
  each industry trend for the group as a whole.

158. Strategic groups consist of firms that are more _____ to each other than
firms that are not.
  - **A. similar**
  - B. useful
  - C. familiar
  - D. friendly

159. Strategic groups are clusters of firms that share __________ strategies.
  - A. new
  - B. the same
  - C. differing
  - **D. similar**

160. Classifying an industry into strategic groups involves judgment. If it is
useful as an analytical tool, we must exercise caution in deciding what
dimensions to use to map these firms. Dimensions include (*everything except?*)
  - A. price and quality.
  - B. degree of vertical integration.
  - C. breadth of product and geographic scope.
  - **D. management team.**

161. Referring to the textbook Exhibit 2.7 The World Automobile Industry:
Strategic Groups, which strategic group is the largest in terms of breadth of
product line?
  - A. Mercedes, BMW
  - B. Chery, Geely, Tata Motors
  - C. Ferrari, Lamborghini, Porsche
  - **D. Toyota, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, Honda, Nissan**

162. Referring to the textbook Exhibit 2.7 The World Automobile Industry:
Strategic Groups, which strategic group is the smallest in terms of breadth of
product line?
  - A. Mercedes, BMW
  - B. Ferrari, Lamborghini, Porsche
  - **C. Chery, Geely, Tata Motors**
  - D. Toyota, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, Honda, Nissan

163. Referring to the textbook Exhibit 2.7 The World Automobile Industry:
Strategic Groups, which strategic group consists of firms high in product
pricing/quality and average in their product-line breadth?
  - A. Chery, Geely, Tata Motors
  - B. Ferrari, Lamborghini, Porsche
  - C. Toyota, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, Honda, Nissan
  - **D. Mercedes, BMW**

164. In 2014 , Audi introduced the Q3 SUV at a base price of only $32,500. And
BMW, with its 1-series, is another well-known example. Such cars, priced in the
low $30,000s, compete more directly with products from broad-line manufacturers
like Ford, General Motors, and Toyota. This suggests that members of a
strategic group can overcome _____ barriers and migrate to other groups that
they find attractive if they are willing to commit time and resources.
  - A. competitive
  - B. pricing
  - **C. mobility**
  - D. cost

165. The strategic groups concept is valuable for identifying groups with
_______ competitive positions.
  - A. poor
  - **B. marginal**
  - C. exceptional
  - D. healthy

166. The strategic groups concept is valuable for charting the ______
directions of firm strategies.
  - **A. future**
  - B. present
  - C. historical
  - D. past

167. The strategic groups concept is valuable for assessing the implications of
industry ________ for the strategic group as a whole.
  - **A. trends**
  - B. experience
  - C. positions
  - D. wealth

## Chapter 3 ##

168. Which of the following is not a limitation of SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses,
Opportunities, and Threats) analysis?
  - A. Organizational strengths may not lead to competitive advantage.
  - **B. The SWOT focus on the external environment is too broad and
  integrative.**
  - C. SWOT overemphasizes a single dimension of strategy.
  - D. SWOT gives a one-shot view of a moving target.

169. Which of the following is a limitation of SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses,
  Opportunities, and Threats) analysis?
  - A. SWOT overemphasizes a multiple dimensions of strategy.
  - B. SWOT gives a multi-shot view of a moving target.
  - **C. Organizational strengths may not lead to competitive advantage.**
  - D. The SWOT focus on internal environment is too broad and integrative.

170. A key __________ of SWOT is that it is primarily a static assessment.
  - A. threat
  - B. strength
  - **C. weakness**
  - D. opportunity

171. Strategists who rely on traditional definitions of their industry and
competitive environment often focus their sights too ___________ on current
customers, technologies, and competitors.
  - A. broadly
  - **B. narrowly**
  - C. widely
  - D. aggressively

172. Company __________, no matter how unique or impressive, may not enable it
to achieve a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
  - A. strengths and threats
  - **B. strengths and capabilities**
  - C. strengths and opportunities
  - D. opportunities

173. Sometimes firms become preoccupied with _________ or a key feature of the
product or service they are offering and ignore other factors needed for
competitive success.
  - A. a single opportunity
  - **B. a single strength**
  - C. multiple strengths
  - D. multiple opportunities

174. __________ among organizations is played out over time.
  - A. Learning
  - B. Negotiation
  - C. Sustainability
  - **D. Competition**

175. Focusing too narrowly on current customers, technologies, and competitors
can lead to a failure to notice important changes on the periphery of their
environment that may trigger the need to redefine industry boundaries and
identify a whole new set of competitive relationships. This is a result of
relying
  - A. solely on intuition.
  - B. on traditional definitions of all industries and competitive
  environments.
  - **C. on traditional definitions of the relevant industry and competitive
  environment.**
  - D. on a superficial evaluation of the relevant industry and competitive
  environment.

176. Toyota, the giant automaker, paid a heavy price for its ___________
emphasis on cost control. The resulting problems with quality and the negative
publicity led to severe financial losses and an erosion of its reputation in
many markets.
  - A. superficial
  - B. low-budget
  - C. minimal
  - **D. excessive**

177. Competition among organizations is played out over time. As circumstances,
capabilities, and strategies change, _________ techniques do not reveal the
dynamics of the competitive environment.
  - A. variable analysis
  - B. transactional analysis
  - C. continuous
  - **D. static analysis**

178. A SWOT analysis alone __________ helps a firm develop competitive
advantages that it can sustain over time.
  - A. regularly
  - **B. rarely**
  - C. often
  - D. usually

179. Inbound logistics include
  - A. promotion and packaging.
  - **B. warehousing and inventory control.**
  - C. repair and parts supply.
  - D. machining and packaging.

180. In assessing its primary activities, an airline would examine
  - A. the effectiveness of its lobbying activities.
  - **B. baggage handling.**
  - C. criteria for lease versus purchase decisions.
  - D. employee training programs.

181. Advertising is a __________ activity. Supply of replacement parts is a
__________ activity.
  - A. support; primary
  - **B. primary; primary**
  - C. primary; support
  - D. support; secondary

182. Which of the following examples demonstrates how successful organizations
manage their primary activities?
  - A. Wal-Mart implemented a sophisticated information system that resulted in
  reduced inventory carrying costs and shortened customer response times.
  - **B. Hewlett Packard has cut lead time from five days to one by employing
  JIT inventory management.** (*A. implies tech dev which is support*)
  - C. National Steel improved its efficiency by reducing the number of job
  classifications.
  - D. Motorola has revised its compensation system to reward employees who
  learn a variety of skills.

183. Which of the following is not an advantage of Just-In-Time inventory
systems?
  - **A. reduced dependence on suppliers**
  - B. minimized idle production facilities and workers
  - C. reduced raw material storage costs
  - D. reduced work-in-process inventories

184. XYZ Corp. is focusing on the objective of low-cost, high quality, on-time
production by minimizing idle productive facilities and workers. The XYZ Corp.
is taking advantage of a __________ system.
  - A. First In, First Out (FIFO)
  - **B. Just-In-Time (JIT)** (*probably the best answer?*)
  - C. Highly mechanized
  - D. Last In, First Out (LIFO)

185. ___________ is/are associated with collecting, storing, and distributing
the product or service to buyers. They consist of warehousing, material
handling, delivery operation, order processing, and scheduling.
  - A. Operations
  - B. Inbound logistics
  - **C. Outbound logistics**
  - D. Services

186. Customer service includes
  - A. procurement of critical supplies.
  - B. product promotion.
  - **C. parts supply.**
  - D. product distribution.

187. Which of the following is a support activity?
  - **A. technology development**
  - B. inbound logistics
  - C. operations
  - D. customer service

188. Which of the following lists consists of support activities?
  - A. human resource management, customer service, marketing and sales, and
  operations
  - B. human resource management, technology development, customer service, and
  procurement
  - C. customer service, information systems, technology development, and
  procurement
  - **D. human resource management, technology development, procurement, and
  general administration**

189. Human resource management consists of activities involved in the
recruiting, hiring, training, development, and compensation of all types of
personnel. It supports
  - **A. both individual primary and support activities and the entire value
  chain.**
  - B. only individual primary activities.
  - C. mostly support activities but does have some impact on primary
  activities.
  - D. only individual support activities.

190. According to value-chain analysis, which of the following would be
considered part of the general administration in a firm?
  - A. procurement
  - B. human resource management
  - **C. information systems**
  - D. technology development

191. A marketing department that promises delivery faster than the ability of
the production department to produce is an example of a lack of understanding
of the
  - A. organizational culture and leadership.
  - **B. interrelationships among functional areas and firm strategies
  organizational culture and leadership.**
  - C. synergy of the business units.
  - D. need to maintain the reputation of the company.

192. In a retail service industry, which of the following is not a primary
value-chain activity?
  - A. purchasing goods
  - B. operating stores
  - **C. human resource management**
  - D. partnering with vendors

193. In terms of value chain analysis, a telephone operating company would find
that negotiating and maintaining ongoing relations with regulatory bodies are
important activities for achieving
  - **A. competitive advantage.**
  - B. better employees.
  - C. customer awareness.
  - D. returns on investment.

194. General administration is sometimes viewed as only _______ but can be a powerful source of competitive advantage.
  - **A. overhead**
  - B. unimportant
  - C. value
  - D. income

195. German truck and trailer manufacturer, Schmitz Cargobull, mainly serves
customers that are operators of truck or trailer fleets. What sets the company
part is its expertise in telematics (the integrated application of
telecommunications data) to monitor the current state of any Schmitz
Cargobull-produced trailer. This is an example of using ________ to enhance
customer value and increase _______ position.
  - A. human resources; marketing
  - B. operations; marketing
  - C. sales; competitive
  - **D. information technology; competitive**

196. In an interview with Lise Saari, former director of global workforce
research at IBM, she notes that HR must be a true partner of the business, with
a deep and up-to-date understanding of business realities and objectives, and
must ensure HR initiatives fully support them at all points of the value chain.
This is an example of
  - A. relationships between firms.
  - B. interrelationships among firms.
  - **C. interrelationships among activities within the firm.**
  - D. relationships among activities within the firm and with other
  stakeholders.

197. Regarding the value-chain concept, the most important interrelationship is
between the organization and its
  - A. employees.
  - B. management.
  - C. board of directors.
  - **D. customers.**

198. In contrast to __________ interactions, which allow the firm to gain
insights on the needs of a particular customer, ___________ offers the
opportunity to leverage the wisdom of a larger crowd.
  - A. marketing; crowdsourcing
  - B. prosumer; outsourcing
  - **C. prosumer; crowdsourcing**
  - D. consumer; sourcing

199. In using crowdsourcing as a means to integrate the customer into the value
chain, there are some perils to consider. Which of the following is not related
to crowdsourcing perils?
  - A. Giving customers the opportunity to tarnish the company brand.
  - B. Repeatedly getting feedback from the same customer.
  - **C. Asking for consumer input when demand is certain.**
  - D. Asking for consumer input when demand is highly uncertain.

200. Accounting is a sort of transformation process that converts daily records
of individual transactions into monthly financial reports. The __________ are
the inputs, accounting is the operation that adds value, and ___________ are
the outputs.
  - A. financial statements; transaction records
  - B. employee records; transaction records
  - **C. transaction records; financial statements**
  - D. health records; transaction statements

201. A travel agent adds value by creating an itinerary that includes
transportation, accommodations, and activities that are customized to your
budget and travel dates. In terms of the value chain analysis, this is an
example of a ____________ organization.
  - A. travel
  - B. manufacturing
  - C. retail
  - **D. service**

202. For an engineering services firm, ________________ provides inputs, the
transformation process is the engineering itself, and innovative designs and
practical solutions are the outputs.
  - A. human resource management
  - B. customer support
  - C. experimentation
  - **D. research and development**

203. The resource-based view (RBV) of the firm combines the following two
perspectives:
  - A. the industry and the competitive environment.
  - B. the interrelationships among the primary activities of the firm and
  corporate management.
  - C. the primary and support activities of the firm.
  - **D. the internal analysis of the firm and the external analysis of the
  industry and competitive environment.**

204. The three key types of resources that are central to the resource-based
view of the firm are
  - A. tangible resources, intangible resources, and organizational structure.
  - **B. tangible resources, intangible resources, and organizational
  capabilities.**
  - C. tangible resources, intangible resources, and top management.
  - D. culture, tangible resources, intangible resources.

205. In the resource-based view of the firm, examples of tangible resources
include
  - A. financial resources, human resources, and firm competencies.
  - B. outstanding customer service, innovativeness of products, and reputation.
  - **C. financial resources, physical resources, and technological resources.**
  - D. financial resources, physical resources, and the capacity to combine
  intangible resources.

206. _____________ are typically embedded in unique routines and practices that
have evolved and accumulated over time such as effective work teams.
  - **A. Intangible resources**
  - B. Reputational resources
  - C. Organizational capabilities
  - D. Tangible resources

207. Apple combines and packages proven technology in new and innovative ways.
This is an example of its use of
  - A. tangible resources.
  - **B. organizational capabilities.**
  - C. intangible resources.
  - D. strong primary activities.

208. __________ are the competencies or skills that a firm employs to transform inputs into outputs.
  - A. Reputational resources
  - B. Tangible resources
  - C. Intangible resources
  - **D. Organizational capabilities**

209. Which of the following is not an example of organizational capabilities?
  - A. ability to hire, motivate, and retain human capital
  - B. outstanding customer service
  - **C. reputation with customers for quality and reliability**
  - D. innovativeness of products and services

210. The ability to hire, motivate, and retain human capital is an example of
________ capabilities in the resource-based view of the firm.
  - A. management
  - B. design
  - **C. organizational**
  - D. tangible

211. In order to be considered strategic resources that contribute competitive
advantage, they must have several characteristics. Which of the following is
not one of these?
  - **A. inexpensive to imitate**
  - B. valuable
  - C. rare
  - D. costly to substitute

212. Which of the following is not a tangible resource?
  - A. company borrowing capacity
  - **B. technical and scientific skills**
  - C. trade secrets, patents, copyrights
  - D. state-of-the art machinery

213. Intangible resources are typically embedded in ________ routines and
practices that have evolved and accumulated over time.
  - A. standard
  - B. rare
  - C. obvious
  - **D. unique**

214. The culture of a firm also may be a resource that provides competitive
advantage. Which of these companies might be a good example of this intangible
resource?
  - **A. Google**
  - B. Walmart
  - C. Kmart
  - D. Costco

215. For a resource to provide a firm with the potential for a sustainable
competitive advantage, it must have four attributes. Which of the following is
not one of these attributes?
  - A. rare
  - B. difficult for competitors to imitate
  - **C. easy for competitors to substitute**
  - D. valuable

216. A competitive advantage based on inimitability can be sustained for at
least some time, if it has the following characteristics:
  - A. geographic uniqueness, cause dependency, social ambiguity, and path
  complexity.
  - **B. physical uniqueness, path dependency, causal ambiguity, and social
  complexity.**
  - C. rarity, path dependency, causal ambiguity, and social substitutability.
  - D. psychographic uniqueness, path dependency, causal ambiguity, and
  substitutability.

217. A crash R&D program by one firm cannot replicate a successful technology
developed by another firm, when research findings cumulate. This is an example
of
  - A. physical uniqueness.
  - **B. path dependency.**
  - C. causal ambiguity.
  - D. social complexity.

218. A variety of firm resources include interpersonal relations among managers
in the firm, its culture, and its reputation with its suppliers and customers.
Such competitive advantages are based upon
  - A. path dependency.
  - B. physical uniqueness.
  - C. tangible resources.
  - **D. social complexity.**

219. All of the following are examples of socially complex organizational
phenomena except
  - A. a firm's culture.
  - **B. complex physical technology.**
  - C. leadership and trust.
  - D. interpersonal relations among a firm's managers.

220. A resource is valuable and rare but neither difficult to imitate nor
without substitutes. This should enable the firm to attain
  - A. competitive parity.
  - **B. a temporary competitive advantage.**
  - C. a sustainable competitive advantage.
  - D. no competitive advantage.

221. Employees will be able to obtain a proportionately high level of profits
they generate (relative to the firm) if
  - A. the firm's resources are path dependent.
  - **B. the cost to the firm of replacing them is high.**
  - C. their expertise is firm-specific.
  - D. suppliers are loyal to the firm.

222. Which of the following is not a factor that helps to explain the extent to
which employees and managers will be able to obtain a proportionately high
level of the profits that they generate?
  - A. The cost of exit is high for an employee.
  - **B. Managers have low bargaining power.**
  - C. The cost of employee replacement is high.
  - D. Employees have high bargaining power.

223. Amazon Prime is credited for helping to increase the Amazon stock price by
nearly 300 percent from 2008 to 2010. This competitive advantage is known as
  - A. service validity.
  - **B. causal ambiguity.**
  - C. substitutability.
  - D. product rarity.

224. Four factors help explain the extent to which employees and managers will
be able to obtain a proportionately high level of the profits that they
generate. Which is not one of these factors?
  - **A. competitor bargaining power**
  - B. employee exit costs
  - C. employee replacement cost
  - D. employee bargaining power

225. Which of the following groups generally is charged with creating value
through the process of organizing, coordinating, and leveraging employees as
well as other forms of capital such as plant, equipment, and financial capital?
  - **A. managers**
  - B. unions
  - C. stakeholders
  - D. boards of directors

226. Raymond Ozzie, the software designer who was critical in the development
of Lotus Notes, was able to dictate the terms under which IBM acquired Lotus.
This illustrates that he had ______ bargaining power based on the ________ cost
required by the firm to replace him.
  - A. high; low
  - **B. high; high**
  - C. low; high
  - D. low; low

227. Historical comparisons provide information to managers about changes in
the competitive position of a firm. Historical comparisons often are misleading
  - A. if the overall strategy of the firm is the same.
  - **B. in periods of recession or economic boom.**
  - C. if the firm's stock is publicly traded.
  - D. if the firm shows constant growth.

228. The best measure of company ability to meet imminent financial obligations is known as the
  - A. total asset turnover.
  - B. debt ratio.
  - **C. current ratio.**
  - D. profit margin.

229. Which of the following would be most difficult to assess?
  - **A. the legitimacy and reputation of a firm**
  - B. market share growth
  - C. the liquidity position of a firm
  - D. the efficiency with which a firm utilizes its assets

230. Which of these categories of financial ratios is used to measure the
ability of a firm to meet its short-term financial obligations?
  - **A. liquidity ratios**
  - B. activity ratios
  - C. leverage ratios
  - D. profitability ratios

231. Ratios that reflect whether or not a firm is efficiently using its
resources are known as
  - A. profitability ratios.
  - B. liquidity ratios.
  - C. leverage ratios.
  - **D. turnover ratios.**

232. Which of the following is a profitability ratio?
  - A. total asset turnover
  - **B. return on equity**
  - C. total debt ratio
  - D. current ratio

233. Financial ratio analysis measures the performance of the firm based on all
but which of the following?
  - A. market valuation
  - **B. industry comparison**
  - C. balance sheet
  - D. income statement

234. Comparing your firm with all other firms in your industry assesses _________ performance.
  - A. excessive
  - **B. relative**
  - C. consistent
  - D. non-comparable

235. Making comparisons between a firm and its most direct rivals is useful
because firms within the same strategic industry group have _______ strategies.
  - A. different
  - B. relative
  - **C. similar**
  - D. the same

236. In making the decision to enter the pharmaceutical industry, a company
would not need to consider which of the following?
  - A. comparisons with key competitors
  - B. historical comparisons
  - C. comparisons with industry norms
  - **D. comparisons with non-competitors**

237. A firm that takes on too much long-term debt to finance operations will
see an immediate impact on its indicators of _______ financial leverage.
  - A. short-term
  - B. relative
  - C. comparable
  - **D. long-term**

238. Apple Inc. reported revenues of 171  billion USD and net income of 37
billion USD in 2012. These figures represent a stunning annual growth in
revenue and net income of 57 percent and 43 percent, respectively, for the 2011
to 2013 time period. This information indicates the importance of using
__________ to evaluate company financial performance.
  - A. financial ratios
  - B. competitor analysis
  - **C. historical comparisons**
  - D. industry norms

239. The balanced scorecard provides top managers with a __________ view of the
business.
  - A. detailed and complex
  - B. simple and routine
  - **C. fast but comprehensive**
  - D. long-term financial

240. The balanced scorecard, developed by Kaplan and Norton, helps to integrate
  - A. short-term perspectives and strategic positioning.
  - B. intangible resources and operational measures.
  - C. financial analysis and the reputation of a firm.
  - **D. financial analysis and stakeholder perspectives.**

241. The balanced scorecard enables managers to consider their business from
all of the following perspectives except
  - A. customer perspective.
  - B. innovation and learning perspective.
  - C. internal perspective.
  - **D. ethical perspective.**

242. An important implication of the balanced scorecard approach is that
  - A. the emphasis on customer satisfaction and financial goals are only a
  means to that end.
  - B. gains in financial performance must come at a cost of employee
  satisfaction.
  - C. managers need to recognize that satisfaction of stockholder demands is
  their primary job.
  - **D. managers should not look at their job as primarily balancing
  stakeholder demands.**

243. The financial perspective of the balanced scorecard answers which of the
following questions?
  - A. How do customers see us?
  - **B. How do we look to shareholders?**
  - C. Can we continue to improve and create value?
  - D. What must we excel at?

244. The innovation and learning perspective of the balanced scorecard answers
which of the following questions?
  - A. How do we look to shareholders?
  - B. What must we excel at?
  - C. How do customers see us?
  - **D. Can we continue to improve and create value?**

245. The customer perspective of the balanced scorecard answers which of the
following questions?
  - A. How do we look to shareholders?
  - **B. How do customers see us?**
  - C. What must we excel at?
  - D. Can we continue to improve and create value?

246. The internal business perspective of the balanced scorecard answers which
of the following questions?
  - A. Can we continue to improve and create value?
  - B. How do customers see us?
  - **C. What must we excel at?**
  - D. How do we look to shareholders?

247. The internal measures should reflect business processes that have ______
impact on customer satisfaction. These include factors that affect cycle time,
quality, employee skills, and productivity.
  - A. the least
  - B. potential
  - C. variable
  - **D. the most**

248. From the innovation and learning perspective, survival is dependent upon
managers making _________ changes to existing products and services as well as
introduce entirely new products with expanded capabilities.
  - **A. frequent**
  - B. rare
  - C. few
  - D. no

249. If managers do not recognize from the beginning that the balanced
scorecard is not a _________ and fail to commit to it long term, the
organization will be disappointed.
  - **A. quick fix**
  - B. cheap solution
  - C. panacea
  - D. marketing ploy

250. With the total performance indicators in place at Sears, it can evaluate
if a single store improves its employee attitude by 5 percent and therefore
predict with confidence that if the revenue growth in the district as a whole
is 5 percent, the revenue growth in this particular store would be 5.5 percent.
This is an example of the _______ perspective of the balanced scorecard.
  - A. internal business
  - **B. financial**
  - C. customer
  - D. innovation and learning

## Chapter 4 ##

251. The makeup of goods and services in the Gross Domestic Products of
developed countries has changed over the last decade. More than 50 percent of
the value of GDP of developed countries is based on
  - A. clothing and apparel.
  - B. capital accumulation.
  - **C. knowledge.** (*not sure where the book says this*)
  - D. financial management.

252. As the competitive environment changes, strategic management must focus on
different aspects of the organization. Recently, strategic management has moved from focusing on tangible resources to
  - A. fixed capital.
  - B. working capital.
  - C. investment capital.
  - **D. intangible resources.**

253. Changes in our economy have forced firms to be ____________ concerned with
protecting their knowledge workers, social capital, and intellectual capital.
  - A. less
  - **B. more**
  - C. potentially
  - D. not

254. In the knowledge economy, if a large portion of company value is in
intellectual and human assets, the difference between the market value and book
value of the company should ___________ a company with mostly physical and financial assets.
  - A. be equal to
  - B. not be correlated with
  - C. be smaller than
  - **D. be larger than**

255. According to the text, intellectual capital is the difference between the
market value and the book value of a firm. Intellectual capital can be
increased by
  - A. increasing retention of below average workers.
  - **B. attracting and retaining knowledgeable workers.**
  - C. decreasing labor costs.
  - D. increasing the turnover of employees.

256. Which of the following firms would you expect to have the highest ratio of
market value to book value?
  - **A. Apple**
  - B. General Motors
  - C. Intel
  - D. Nucor

257. Human capital includes
  - A. the relationships between people.
  - B. an improved product.
  - C. the output from assembly line employees.
  - **D. capabilities, knowledge, and skills of an individual.**

258. Creativity and problem solving ability are considered to be part of _________ capital.
  - A. physical
  - **B. human**
  - C. social
  - D. emotional

259. The network of relationships that individuals have throughout the
organization is known as
  - A. human capital.
  - **B. social capital.**
  - C. intellectual capital.
  - D. tacit knowledge.

260. Tacit knowledge
  - A. is the same as explicit knowledge.
  - **B. can be accessed only with the consent of the employees.**
  - C. is found mostly at the lower levels of the organization.
  - D. can be codified but not reproduced.

261. New knowledge involves the continual interaction between __________ and __________ knowledge.
  - A. intellectual; pragmatic
  - **B. tacit; explicit**
  - C. theoretical; practical
  - D. detailed; tacit

262. Two software engineers working together on a computer code share their _______ knowledge in order to create new knowledge.
  - A. explicit
  - B. theoretical
  - **C. tacit**
  - D. easily reproduced

263. Today, the loyalty of a knowledge worker to his or her employing firm has
__________ compared to his or her loyalty to his or her profession and
colleagues.
  - A. increased
  - B. remained the same
  - **C. decreased** (*not sure where to find this*)
  - D. no correlation when

264. The text discusses three areas a firm must be concerned with in order to
keep their best and brightest employees from leaving. These include all of the
following except
  - A. hiring/selecting.
  - B. developing.
  - **C. sorting/absorbing.**
  - D. retaining.

265. Managing a knowledge intensive workforce is very challenging. The best way
for a firm to manage its workforce is to
  - A. retain knowledge workers.
  - **B. balance efforts in the attraction, selection, and retention of top
  talent.**
  - C. attract the brightest employees.
  - D. ensure that it pays higher salaries than its rivals.

266. Firms must compete for top talent. In attracting and selecting employees,
firms must strive to select the best fit for both the employee and the firm. In
an effort to reduce wasted time and effort in interviewing too many candidates
while assuring a good candidate pool, a firm should
  - A. run employment ads in the newspaper.
  - **B. use a pre-interview quiz.**
  - C. only let lower level employees interview job candidates.
  - D. refrain from hiring by referrals from present employees.

267. Many companies use referrals by current employees as a source for new
hiring and even monetarily reward them because
  - A. it is less expensive than the fees paid to headhunters.
  - B. current employees normally are careful in recommending someone due to
  their personal credibility.
  - C. it is a good test of employee loyalty.
  - **D. current employees are careful in their recommendations; it is less
  expensive than the fees paid toheadhunters.**

268. QFQ, Incorporated desires to have the most qualified people in every
position throughout its organization. This is an example of a concern for
  - A. decreasing labor intensive training.
  - B. developing social networks.
  - C. leveraging organizational structure.
  - **D. developing human capital.**

269. Developing human capital is essential to maintaining a competitive
advantage in the current knowledge economy. Efforts and initiatives to develop
human capital should be directed
  - A. at top managers.
  - B. at human resource departments.
  - **C. throughout the firm at all levels.**
  - D. at the employees themselves.

270. Maintaining a competitive workforce is very challenging in the current
economy. The role of evaluating human capital, in recent years, has
  - A. remained the same.
  - **B. increased.**
  - C. become less important.
  - D. decreased.

271. In a 360-degree evaluation and feedback system, which of these does not
rate the skills and performance of an individual?
  - A. superiors
  - **B. family**
  - C. direct reports
  - D. colleagues

272. Attracting and retaining human capital is a challenge for many firms
today. Firms experiencing high turnover should
  - A. focus on increased recruiting.
  - B. decrease money spent on human capital.
  - **C. adopt effective retention strategies.**
  - D. make their work environment less stimulating.

273. In order to take advantage of investment in human capital, a firm should
  - A. rotate workers through functions in the company as quickly as possible.
  - B. keep employees in the same position forever.
  - C. refrain from training individual employees.
  - **D. establish practices that will enhance employee retention.**

274. The least effective way to retain human capital is to
  - A. encourage employee identification with organizational mission and goals.
  - B. provide employees with a challenging and stimulating work environment.
  - **C. require employees to sign agreements that prevent them from working
  for competitors in the future.**
  - D. provide employees with financial and nonfinancial rewards and incentives.

275. Human capital and social capital are vital for superior firm performance.
If a firm has strong human capital, the firm may exploit this by building
social capital. This can be accomplished by
  - A. requiring workers to work independently of each other.
  - B. decreasing the interaction of departments within the firm.
  - C. structuring the firm with rigid departmental and employee divisions.
  - **D. encouraging the sharing of ideas between employees in the firm.**

276. In an effort to capture key employees from competitors, firms may attract
the symbolic leader of a group within a competing firm and hope others will
follow. This has been termed
  - A. the Columbus effect.
  - B. knowledge integration.
  - **C. the Pied Piper effect.**
  - D. strategically competitive hiring.

277. What is a major reason for Nokia to lose its competitive edge in the cell
phone business?
  - A. The team consisted of scientists from around the world.
  - **B. The team consisted of only Finnish scientists.**
  - C. All of the work required diverse skill sets.
  - D. Each scientist worked alone, separate from colleagues.

278. Social capital is a source of strength to many firms. Firms leverage their
social capital in an effort to create competitive advantages. The social
capital of a firm is based on the
  - A. individual abilities of employees.
  - B. allocation of the financial resources of the firm.
  - C. knowledge of an individual.
  - **D. relationships among the employees of the firm.**

279. Another example of social relationships causing human capital mobility is
the _______ of talent from an organization to form __________.
  - A. stability; bail-outs
  - B. emigration; bail-outs
  - C. relocation; new business units
  - **D. emigration; start-up ventures**

280. Professionals frequently leave Microsoft en masse to form venture capital
and technology start-ups, called Baby Bills, built around teams of software
developers. This is an example of ____________ causing human capital mobility.
  - A. formal relationships
  - **B. social relationships**
  - C. tacit knowledge
  - D. intellectual capital

281. According to the resource-based view of the firm, competitive advantages
are ______ for competitors to copy, if they are based on unique bundles of
resources.
  - A. easier
  - B. faster
  - **C. harder**
  - D. more reliable

282. If employees are working effectively in teams and sharing their knowledge
and learning from each other, they will be ________ to add value to the firm
and they also will be ________ to leave the organization, because of the loyalties and social ties that they develop over time.
  - A. more likely; more likely
  - B. less likely; more likely
  - C. less likely; less likely
  - **D. more likely; less likely**

283. Knowledge-based resources tend to be more ______ in nature and therefore
they are ________ difficult to protect against loss (i.e., the individual
quitting the organization) than other types of capital, such as
equipment, machinery, and land.
  - A. explicit; less
  - B. explicitly; more
  - C. tacit; less
  - **D. tacit; more**

284. Knowledge workers often exhibit __________ loyalties to their colleagues
and their profession relative to their employing organization.
  - A. fewer
  - B. less favorable
  - C. no
  - **D. greater**

285. The __________, __________, and __________ talent is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for creating competitive advantages.
  - A. attraction; laissez-faire; retention of
  - B. observance; laissez-faire; regard for
  - **C. attraction; development; retention of**
  - D. observance; development; hands-off approach to

286. Tying knowledge workers to a firm is part of the objective of the
development of
  - A. intellectual capital.
  - B. explicit knowledge.
  - C. social capital.
  - **D. human capital.**

287. Social network analysis is helpful because the configuration of the group
member social ties within and outside the group affects the extent to which
members connect to individuals who do all of the following except
  - A. convey needed resources.
  - B. have the opportunity to exchange information and support.
  - **C. ensure that everyone has the same perspective on strategic and operational issues.**
  - D. have the motivation to treat each other in positive ways.

288. In social network analysis, the importance of ties connecting
heterogeneous people that help to ensure a wide range of diversity in
information and perspective is known as
  - A. closure.
  - B. social supports.
  - C. redundancy.
  - **D. bridging relationships.**

289. In social network analysis, groups can become too insular and fail to
share what they have learned with people outside the group. This is a result of
  - **A. closure.**
  - B. intellect.
  - C. bridging relationships.
  - D. diverse knowledge.

290. Advantages of effective social networks for career success include all of
the following except
  - A. access to private information.
  - **B. greater redundancy in knowledge sources.**
  - C. access to diverse skill sets.
  - D. greater power.

291. Social capital has downsides. Which of the following is a downside?
  - **A. High social capital may breed groupthink.**
  - B. Socialization processes are inexpensive.
  - C. Individuals may be more willing to collaborate on joint projects.
  - D. Management commitment is easy to obtain.

292. Social capital has many potential benefits; however, according to the
text, social capital
  - A. is always beneficial to a firm.
  - **B. may or may not be beneficial to a firm.**
  - C. usually restricts the productivity of employees.
  - D. always hurts firm performance.

293. Which of the following reasons explains why painter Vincent van Gogh died
penniless, while painter Pablo Picasso left a 740 million USD estate upon his
death?
  - A. Van Gogh had a wider range of social connections.
  - **B. Picasso had a wider range of social connections and bridging
  relationships.**
  - C. Picasso was a solitary node with few connections.
  - D. Van Gogh was a hub who embedded himself in a vast network that stretched
  across various social lines.

294. A recent study of over 300 companies explored how management teams can
understand and capitalize on the formal and informal social networks of their
employees. Six common types of managers who get stuck in three types of network
traps were identified. Which of the following is not one of these network
traps?
  - A. the wrong structure
  - B. the wrong relationships
  - C. the wrong behavior
  - **D. the wrong business**

295. By using the ___________ lever, leaders can build nimble interpersonal
networks across the company so that employees are better able to collaborate.
  - A. unification
  - B. people
  - **C. network**
  - D. social

296. With the _________ lever, the emphasis is on getting the right people to
collaborate on the right projects.
  - A. network
  - B. unification
  - C. social
  - **D. people**

297. Effective leaders can choose a mix of three levers. When motivation is the
problem, they can use the ___________ lever, wherein they craft compelling
common goals, articulate a strong value of crosscompany
teamwork, and encourage collaboration in order to send strong signals to lift
individual sights beyond their narrow interests toward a common goal.
  - A. T-shaped management
  - B. people
  - C. network
  - **D. unification**

298. The use of information technology (e.g., email) has increased in recent
years in many organizations. This has helped to ____________.
  - A. make more effective use of time in every situation
  - **B. communicate information efficiently**
  - C. restrict social network growth
  - D. create smaller social networks

299. London-based International Power increased firm efficiency by using all
but which of the following?
  - A. forwarding email messages only when strictly necessary
  - B. limiting the email message recipient list
  - C. using the telephone
  - **D. eliminating email communication**

300. Top executives can use email effectively for all of the following except
  - A. updates on company strategy.
  - B. executive perspectives on key issues.
  - C. overview of the executive work for the month.
  - **D. updates on corporate intelligence.**

301. The use of sophisticated information sharing platforms has increased in
recent years in many organizations. This has helped to
  - **A. facilitate internal and external collaboration.**
  - B. keep employees satisfied with social networks.
  - C. override the need for email.
  - D. increase paperwork.

302. The Cisco Integrated Workforce Experience (IWE) platform is a social
business platform designed to facilitate __________ and __________
collaboration and decentralize decision making.
  - A. internal; network-side
  - B. external; personal
  - C. external; individual
  - **D. internal; external**

303. The Cisco Integrated Workforce Experience (IWE) platform makes
recommendations based on all of the following except
  - A. what you are doing.
  - B. the role you are in.
  - C. the choices of people like you.
  - **D. competitor choices.**

304. To increase productivity, several key lessons were learned by top
management at London-based International Power concerning email. Which is not
in that list of lessons?
  - A. Executives need to be taught to be more deliberate in their use of email.
  - B. Executives need to set goals for reducing the number of messages sent.
  - C. Executives need to provide weekly feedback.
  - **D. Executives need to eliminate email completely.**

305. Efficiency killers that London-based International Power identified in
their communication using tools from lean manufacturing included
  - A. overproduction and messages.
  - B. underproduction and defects.
  - C. underproduction and ineffective messages.
  - **D. overproduction and defects in messages.**

306. The dangers of email include all of the following except
  - A. spreading of rumors.
  - **B. almost costless.**
  - C. uncontrollable distribution.
  - D. personal time waster.

307. Sharing knowledge and information throughout the organization can be a
means of
  - A. conserving products and services.
  - B. continuing with outdated products.
  - **C. conserving resources.**
  - D. overusing email.

308. Technology can be used to leverage __________ and _____________ within
organizations as well as with customers and suppliers beyond their boundaries.
  - A. human capital; intellectual capital
  - **B. human capital; knowledge**
  - C. knowledge; social capital
  - D. communication; social capital

309. Technology can be used to leverage human capital and knowledge within
organizations as well as with ____________ and __________ beyond their
boundaries.
  - A. employees; clients
  - B. customers; employees
  - **C. customers; suppliers**
  - D. employees; suppliers

310. The creation of knowledge assets is typically characterized by
  - A. high upfront costs and subsequent high variable costs.
  - B. high fixed costs and high variable costs.
  - **C. high upfront costs and low variable costs.**
  - D. low upfront costs and high variable costs.

311. Mary Stinson was required to take over a project after the entire team
left the company. She was able to reconstruct what the team had accomplished
through reading emails exchanged by the members of the team. This is an example
of
  - A. inefficient use of information management.
  - **B. using explicit knowledge.**
  - C. using tacit knowledge.
  - D. using replicated knowledge.

312. Characteristics of e-teams include all of the following except:
  - A. E-team members either work in geographically separated workplaces or may
  work in the same space but at different times.
  - B. E-teams may have members working in different spaces and time zones.
  - C. Most of the interactions among members of e-teams occur through
  electronic communication channels.
  - **D. E-teams generally perform simple tasks.**

313. There are multiple advantages of e-teams. Which of the following is not an
advantage?
  - A. E-teams are less restricted by the geographic constraints that are
  placed on face-to-face teams.
  - B. E-teams can be more flexible in responding to unanticipated work
  challenges and opportunities.
  - **C. Process losses result from identification and combination activities.**
  - D. E-teams can be effective in generating social capital.

314. There are multiple challenges associated with making effective e-teams.
Which of the following is not a challenge?
  - A. Process losses result from identification and combination activities.
  - **B. E-teams can be effective in generating social capital.**
  - C. The physically dispersed team is susceptible to the risk factors that
  can create process loss.
  - D. Some collective energy, time, and effort must be devoted to dealing with
  team inefficiencies.

315. The potential for __________ tends to be more prevalent in e-teams than in
traditional teams because the geographic dispersion of members increases the
complexity of establishing effective interaction and exchanges.
  - A. team harmony
  - B. trust
  - **C. profit losses** (*assume he meant process losses*)
  - D. profit gains

316. In general, teams suffer process loss because of ____ cohesion, ___ trust
among members, a lack of appropriate norms or standard operating procedures, or
a lack of shared understanding among team members about their tasks.
  - A. high; high
  - B. low; high
  - C. high; low
  - **D. low; low**

317. Access Health, a call-in medical center, uses technology to capture and
share knowledge. When someone calls the center, a registered nurse uses the
company clinical decision architecture to assess the caller symptoms, rule out
possible conditions, and recommend a home remedy, doctor visit, or trip to the
emergency room. This is an example of using
  - A. tacit knowledge.
  - **B. a knowledge asset.**
  - C. a non-codified asset.
  - D. groupthink.

318. When an organization tries to improve cycle times in a manufacturing
process, it finds far more value in problem solving shaped by the diverse
experiences, perspectives, and learning of a tightly knit team than
in a training manual alone. SAP uses these _________ flows to gain competitive
advantage.
  - A. knowledge stocks
  - B. knowledge assessments
  - **C. knowledge**
  - D. tacit

319. SAP uses ____________ to leverage the expertise and involvement of its
users in developing new knowledge and then transmitting it to the entire SAP
user community.
  - A. tacit knowledge
  - **B. crowdsourcing**
  - C. algorithms
  - D. intellectual capital

320. Software algorithms are a form of _____________ that, once developed and
paid for, can be reused many times at a very low cost.
  - A. tacit asset
  - B. intangible asset
  - **C. knowledge asset**
  - D. social asset

321. When a firm develops a knowledge asset, such as a process, pays for it and
reuses it over and over at a very low cost, this adds ___________ for the firm.
  - A. tacit knowledge
  - B. little value
  - **C. a competitive advantage**
  - D. a recoverable loss

322. The management of intellectual property involves all of the following
except
  - A. copyrights and trademark.
  - B. contracts with confidentiality and non-compete clauses.
  - **C. converting explicit knowledge to tacit knowledge.**
  - D. patents.

323. Dynamic capabilities include all of the following except
  - A. learning and innovating.
  - **B. becoming more efficient in operational processes.**
  - C. the ability of an organization to challenge the conventional industry in
  its industry and market.
  - D. continuously adopting new ways of serving the evolving needs of the
  market.

324. Which of the following is not an example of an IP-related litigation?
  - A. Apple and HTC sue each other based on patent infringement.
  - B. Apple sues smartphone makers running Android, the Google mobile
  operating system.
  - C. China is sued by U.S. manufacturers of video games.
  - **D. The United States sues to get access to physical plant assets in
  China.**

325. Protecting company intellectual property can be difficult because
employees become disgruntled and patents
  - A. are expensive.
  - B. cannot be protected.
  - **C. expire.**
  - D. roll over.

326. Intellectual property rights are __________ to define and protect than
property rights for physical assets (e.g., plant, equipment, and land).
  - A. easier
  - B. more costly
  - **C. more difficult**
  - D. less difficult

327. IP is characterized by __________ development costs and very ______
marginal costs.
  - A. insignificant; low
  - B. expensive; high
  - **C. significant; low**
  - D. insignificant; high

328. Unlike ______ assets, intellectual property can be stolen by simply broadcasting it.
  - A. intangible
  - B. hidden
  - **C. physical**
  - D. expensive

329. Using an idea does not prevent others from simultaneously using it for
their own benefit. Typically, this is impossible with __________ assets.
  - A. intangible
  - B. strong
  - **C. physical**
  - D. flimsy

330. Which of the following is an IP-heavy industry?
  - A. automobile sales
  - **B. telecommunications**
  - C. contract manufacturing
  - D. retailing

331. Which of the following is not a dynamic capability?
  - A. the ability to sense and seize new opportunities
  - B. the ability to generate new knowledge
  - C. the ability to reconfigure existing assets
  - **D. the ability to submit to conventional industry and market wisdom**

332. Dynamic capabilities include ______ development, alliances, and
acquisitions.
  - A. after-market
  - **B. product**
  - C. idea
  - D. company

333. The best protection for intellectual property in the long run is likely to
be the development of
  - A. new products.
  - B. stronger patents.
  - **C. dynamic capabilities.**
  - D. international patents.
