# December 31, 2016 #
(a freebie to seed 2017)

## Get active in your own rescue ##

> "Stop wandering about! You aren't likely to read your own notebooks, or
ancient histories, or the anthologies you've collected to enjoy in your old
age.  Get busy with life's purpose, toss aside empty hopes, get active in your
own rescue - if you care for yourself at all - and do it while you can."
--Marcus Aurelius, *Meditations*, 3.14

Reading and studying should have a purpose (to aid the living out of our
personal philosophy [Rohn]), but eventually we need to just take action.
Don't get stuck with another book, just take action.  Focus on projects (action)
over just studying (inaction).  Life is short and could end today or tomorrow.

# January 1, 2017 #

## Control and Choice ##

> "The chief task in life is simply this: to identify and separate matters so
that I can say clearly to myself which are externals not under my control,
and which have to do with the choices I actually control.  Where then do I look
for good and evil? Not to uncontrollable externals, but within myself to the
choices that are my own..."
--Epictetus, *Discourses*, 2.5.4-5

Knowing the difference between what we can and cannot change is key.  Time
spent working on tasks trying to change something we cannot control is time
we cannot spend on things we **can**.  We cannot change the past, but we can
change the future via the present.  Merely focusing on what we can change and
ignoring the rest sets us up at a distinct advantage over most of the world
who are busy "fighting an unwinnable battle."

# January 2, 2017 #

## Education is Freedom ##

> "What is the fruit of these teachings? Only the most beautiful and proper
harvest of the truly educated- tranquility, fearlessness, and freedom.  We
should not trust the masses who say only the free can be educated, but rather
the lovers of wisdom who say that only the educated are free"
--Epictetus, *Discourses*, 2.1.21-23

Education serves the purpose to free, to allow one to fear less, to bring a
state of peace.  Remember that when the opportunity to be distracted by video
games or eat mindless presents itself.  Read, learn, instead.  Knowledge, but
especially self-knowledge, brings freedom.
